\section{Introduction}
\label{sec:intro}

This bachelor thesis stands in a row of theses all concerned with the
improvement of nitrogen oxide detection capabilities of CE-DOAS
instruments. Nitrogen oxides (\ch{NO_x}) play an important role in the
atmospherical chemistry in urban areas (c.\,f.~\cite{roedel}) and are
major air pollutants in German cities
(c.\,f.~\cite{no2schadstoff,who}). Together with other volatile
organic compounds, they can build up ozone, leading to higher health
risks. In addition, they are slightly toxic in its own right.

In inhabitated areas, most nitrogen oxide is anthropogenic, as it is
generated during combustion processes, e.\,g.\ in car engines. Strict
regulation and monitoring by government agencies is necessary to
protect the air quality. However, the recent VW affair shows that
there is still a lack of adequate monitoring instruments. There is a
need for mobile and reasonably priced measurement units, which can be
used to determine the \ch{NO_x} emissions under live conditions; in
the streets, during regular traffic.

A first succesful step towards such an instrument is the compact
CE-DOAS instrument developed at the Institute of Environmental Physics
at Heidelberg University. With a led in the blue light spectrum, it
can determine nitrogen dioxide (\ch{NO2}) concentrations with a very
high accuracy, while being portable and easily installable in vehicles
for in vivo measurements. However, there is still room for
improvement. Nitrogen monoxide (\ch{NO}) is also a central component
in the atmospheric \ch{NO_x} equilibrium, but it can only be detected
in the ultraviolet wavelength range. This is a dilemma as UV leds are
still expensive and highly reflective mirrors in that range are even
more so, making such an upgrade unattractive. Luckily, there is a
workaround for this problem. There is a promising conversion from
\ch{NO} to \ch{NO2}, which would allow us to measure the concentration
indirectly. The details of this converter construction are the topic
of this work.

Zimmermann~\cite{zimmermann}, Gerick~\cite{gerick} and
Jegminat~\cite{bsc} have already established, that ambient air
together with a mercury lamp can be used to generate ozone, which in
turn triggers the desired conversion. However, there are still a few
stumbling blocks left. The ozone generator produces \ch{NO2}, too,
which disturbs the measured \ch{NO_x} signals. Jegminat found that
this additional signal is due to laughing gas (\ch{N2O}), which is
very hard to filter. Therefore, this work explores the possibilities
of filtering the \ch{NO2} behind the generator, while avoiding the
removal of the necessary ozone. Silica gel is used
as~\cite{ozone-silica} inidicates, that it will quickly be saturated
by ozone, while still being able to adsorb nitrogen dioxide. I confirmed
this hypothesis and determined the filtering efffects. After having
assured a clean ozone air stream, I worked with synthetic sample air
allowing precisely controlled \ch{NO} concentrations and determined
the accuracy of our conversion in this pure \ch{NO}
setting. Afterwards, I characterized the alternating measurement mode
which switches between \ch{NO2} and \ch{NO}+\ch{NO2} measurements.
Necessary purge times in between measurements had to be determined to
ensure that stable equilibria were reached. As it turns out ozone
adsorption at the teflon tubes might be a major caveat, when it comes
to quickly draining the system of it. If one measurement mode
(i.\,e. \ch{NO2} or \ch{NO_x}) is fixed, no additional adsorption
effects seem to occur. Next, I conducted measurements using ambient air
and compared the results to a well established  \ch{NO} measurement
method, a chemiluminescence monitor. Lastly, I turned my attention
towards the above mentioned possible application and performed vehicle
measurements within Heidelberg. The updated cavity together with a
second (pure \ch{NO2}) cavity was installed in a car and the plume of
ca.~30 vehicles was measured. Additionally, measurements next to the
Heidelberg air quality measurement station were performed, which allowed
me to comparae the cavity results to official data.

In the following I will first discuss the necessary physical and
chemical background for the understanding of the converter and the
DOAS system (Sec.~\ref{sec:theory}). This will already show some of
the necessary constraints for our setup, which I will describe in
detail in Section~\ref{sec:setup}. Finally, I will discuss all
performed experiments in Section~\ref{sec:measurements} together with
their results and their interpretation.

%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "../Bachelor"
%%% End:
